AWS Interview questions

1: Difference between Amazon RDS, DynamoDB and Redshift?

Ans: RDS is meant for structured data only. DynamoDB is meant for unstructured data 
which is a NoSQL service. Redshift is a data warehouse product used for data analysis.

2: What are Lifecycle Hooks?

Ans: Lifecycle Hooks are used in Auto Scaling. Lifecycle hooks enable you to perform custom 
actions by pausing instances as an Auto Scaling group launches or terminates them. Each 
Auto Scaling group can have multiple lifecycle hooks.

3: What is S3?

Ans: S3 stands for Simple Storage Service, with a simple web service interface to store and 
retrieve any amount of data from anywhere on the web.

4: What is AWS Lambada?

Ans: Lambda is an event-driven platform. It is a compute service that runs code in response 
to events and automatically manages the compute resources required by that code.

5: In S3 how many buckets can be created?

Ans: By default 100 buckets can be created in a region.

6: What is CloudFront?

Ans: Amazon CloudFront is a service that speeds up transfer of your static and dynamic web 
content such as HTML files, IMAGE files., etc., CloudFront delivers your particulars thru 
worldwide data centers named Edge Locations.

7: Brief about S3 service in AWS?

Ans: S3, a Simple Storage Service from Amazon. You can move your files TO and FROM S3. 
Its like a FTP storage. You can keep your SNAPSHOTS in S3. You can also ENCRYPT your 
sensitive data in S3.

8: Explain Regions and Available Zones in EC2?

Ans: Amazon has hosted EC2 in various locations around the world. These locations are 
called REGIONS. For example in Asia, Mumbai is one region and Singapore is another 
region. Each region is composed of isolated locations which are known as AVAILABLE 
ZONES. Region is independent. But the Available Zones are linked thru low-latency links.

9: What are the two types of Load Balancer?

Ans: Classic LB and Application LB. ALB is the Content Based Routing.

10: Can a AMI be shared?

Ans: Yes. A developer can create an AMI and share it with other developers for their use. A 
shared AMI is packed with the components you need and you can customize the same as per 
your needs. As you are not an owner of a shared AMI there is a risk always involved
