AWS Interview questions

1. Define and explain the three basic types of cloud services and the AWS products that are built based on them?
Computing
Storage
Networking
some of the AWS products that are built based on the three cloud service types:

Computing - These include EC2, Elastic Beanstalk, Lambda, Auto-Scaling.

Storage - These include S3, Glacier, Elastic Block Storage, Elastic File System.

Networking - These include VPC, Amazon CloudFront, Route53.


2. What is the relation between the Availability Zone and Region?
AWS regions are separate geographical areas, like the US-West 1 (North California) and Asia South (Mumbai). 
On the other hand, availability zones are the areas that are present inside the regions. 
These are generally isolated zones that can replicate themselves whenever required.


3.What is auto-scaling?
Auto-scaling is a function that allows you to provision and launch new instances whenever there is a demand. 
It allows you to automatically increase or decrease resource capacity in relation to the demand.


4. How do you upgrade or downgrade a system with near-zero downtime?

Open EC2 console
Choose Operating System AMI
Launch an instance with the new instance type
Install all the updates
Install applications
Test the instance to see if it’s working
If working, deploy the new instance and replace the older instance
Once it’s deployed, you can upgrade or downgrade the system with near-zero downtime.



5.What are the tools and techniques that you can use in AWS to identify 
if you are paying more than you should be, and how to correct it?

Check the Top Services Table
	It is a dashboard in the cost management console that shows you the top five most used services. 
	This will let you know how much money you are spending on the resources in question.
	
Cost Explorer
	There are cost explorer services available that will help you to view and analyze your usage costs for the last 13 months. 
	You can also get a cost forecast for the upcoming three months.
	
AWS Budgets
	This allows you to plan a budget for the services. Also, it will enable you to check if the current plan meets your budget 
	and the details of how you use the services.
	
Cost Allocation Tags
	This helps in identifying the resource that has cost more in a particular month. 
	It lets you organize your resources and cost allocation tags to keep track of your AWS costs.
	

6.Is there any other alternative tool to log into the cloud environment other than console?
	Putty
	AWS CLI for Linux
	AWS CLI for windows
	
	
7.What is a DDoS attack, and what services can minimize them?
	 DDoS is a cyber-attack in which the perpetrator accesses a website and creates multiple sessions so that the other legitimate users 
	 cannot access the service. The native tools that can help you deny the DDoS attacks on your AWS services are:
	 AWS Shield
	 AWS WAF
	 Amazon Route53
	 ELB
	 
	 
8.You are trying to provide a service in a particular region, but you do not see the service in that region. 
Why is this happening, and how do you fix it?

Not all Amazon AWS services are available in all regions. When Amazon initially launches a new service, 
it doesn’t get immediately published in all the regions. They start small and then slowly expand to other regions. 
So, if you don’t see a specific service in your region, chances are the service hasn’t been published in your region yet. 
However, if you want to get the service that is not available, you can switch to the nearest region that provides the services.


9.How do you set up a system to monitor website metrics in real-time in AWS?
Amazon CloudWatch helps you to monitor the application status of various AWS services and custom events. 
It helps you to monitor:
	State changes in Amazon EC2
	Auto-scaling lifecycle events
	AWS API calls
	Console sign-in events
	
10.Name some of the AWS services that are not region-specific?
IAM
Route 53
Web Application Firewall
CloudFront


11.What is CloudWatch?
Depending on multiple metrics, it participates in triggering alarms.
Helps in monitoring the AWS environments like CPU utilization, EC2, Amazon RDS instances, 
Amazon SQS, S3, Load Balancer, SNS, etc.


12.With specified private IP addresses, can an Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) instance be launched? 
If so, which Amazon service makes it possible?
Yes. Utilizing VPC makes it possible (Virtual Private Cloud)


13.Mention the different types of instances in  Amazon EC2 and explain its features.

General Purpose Instances: They are used to compute a range of workloads and aid in the allocation of processing, 
memory, and networking resources.
Compute Optimized Instances: These are ideal for compute-intensive applications. They can handle  batch processing workloads, 
high-performance web servers.
Memory Optimized: They process workloads that handle massive datasets in memory and deliver them quickly.
Accelerated Computing: It aids in the execution of floating-point number calculations, data pattern matching, and 
graphics processing. These functions are carried out using hardware accelerators.
Storage Optimised: They handle tasks that require sequential read and write access to big data sets on local storage.


14.Will your standby RDS be launched in the same availability zone as your primary?

No, standby instances are launched in different availability zones than the primary, resulting in physically 
separate infrastructures. This is because the entire purpose of standby instances is to prevent infrastructure failure. 
As a result, if the primary instance fails, the backup instance will assist in recovering all of the data.


15.What is the difference between a Spot Instance, an On-demand Instance, and a Reserved Instance?
Spot instances are unused EC2 instances that users can use at a reduced cost.

When you use on-demand instances, you must pay for computing resources without making long-term obligations.
Reserved instances, on the other hand, allow you to specify attributes such as instance type, platform, tenancy, region, and 
availability zone. Reserved instances offer significant reductions and capacity reservations when instances in 
certain availability zones are used.


16.How would you address a situation in which the relational database engine frequently collapses when traffic to your 
RDS instances increases, given that the RDS instance replica is not promoted as the master instance?

A larger RDS instance type is required for handling significant quantities of traffic, as well as producing manual or 
automated snapshots to recover data if the RDS instance fails.


