AWS Interview questions

Q1: List the components required to build Amazon VPC?
Ans: Subnet, Internet Gateway, NAT Gateway, HW VPN Connection, Virtual Private 
Gateway, Customer Gateway, Router, Peering Connection, VPC Endpoint for S3, Egressonly Internet Gateway.

Q2: How do you safeguard your EC2 instances running in a VPC?
Ans: Security Groups can be used to protect your EC2 instances in a VPC. We can configure 
both INBOUND and OUTBOUND traffic in a Security Group which enables secured access 
to your EC2 instances. Security Group automatically denies any unauthorized access to your 
EC2 instances.

Q3: In a VPC how many EC2 instances can you use?
Ans: Initially you are limited to launch 20 EC2 Instances at one time. Maximum VPC size is 
65,536 instances.

Q4: Can you establish a peering connection to a VPC in a different
REGION?
Ans: Not possible. Peering Connection are available only between VPC in the same region.

Q5: Can you connect your VPC with a VPC owned by another AWS
account?
Ans: Yes, Possible. Provided the owner of other VPCs accepts your connection.

Q6: What are all the different connectivity options available for your
VPC?
Ans: Internet Gateway, Virtual Private Gateway, NAT, EndPoints, Peering Connections.

Q7: Can a EC2 instance inside your VPC connect with the EC2 instance
belonging to other VPCs?
Ans: Yes, Possible. Provided an Internet Gateway is configured in such a way that traffic 
bounded for EC2 instances running in other VPCs.

Q8: How can you monitor network traffic in your VPC?
Ans: It is possible using Amazon VPC Flow-Logs feature.

Q9: Difference between Security Groups and ACLs in a VPC?
Ans: A Security Group defines which traffic is allowed TO or FROM EC2 instance. Whereas 
ACL, controls at the SUBNET level, scrutinize the traffic TO or FROM a Subnet.

Q10: Hon an EC2 instance in a VPC establish the connection with the
internet?
Ans: Using either a Public IP or an Elastic IP.

Q11: Different types of Cloud Computing as per services?
Ans: PAAS (Platform As A Service), IAAS (Infrastructure As A Service), SAAS (Software 
As A Service)

Q12: What is Auto Scaling?
Ans: Creating duplicate instances during heavy business hours. Scale-IN and Scale-OUT are 
two different statues of Scaling. Scale-IN: Reducing the instances. Scale-OUT: Increasing the 
instances by duplicating.

Q13: What is AMI?
Ans: AMI is defined as Amazon Machine Image. Basically it’s a template comprising 
software configuration part. For example, Operating System, DB Server, Application Server, 
etc.,

Q14: Difference between Stopping and Terminating the Instances?
Ans: When you STOP an instance it is a normal shutdown. The corresponding EBS volume 
attached to that instance remains attached and you can restart the instance later. When you 
TERMINATE an instance it gets deleted and you cannot restart that instance again later. 
And any EBS volume attached with that instance also deleted.

Q15: When you launch a standby Relational Database Service instance
will it be available in the same Available Zone?
Ans: Not advisable. Because the purpose of having standby RDS instance is to avoid an 
infrastructure failure. So you have to keep your standby RDS service in a different 
Availability Zone, which may have different infrastructure


