AWS EC2 Interview Questions

1.How can you safeguard EC2 instances running on a VPC?

AWS Security groups associated with EC2 instances can help you safeguard EC2 instances running in a VPC by providing security 
at the protocol and port access level. You can configure both INBOUND and OUTBOUND traffic to enable secured access for 
the EC2 instance.AWS security groups are much similar to a firewall-they contain a set of rules which filter the traffic 
coming into and out of an EC2 instance and deny any unauthorized access to EC2 instances.



2.How many EC2 instances can be used in a VPC?

There is a limit of running up to a total of 20 on-demand instances across the instance family, you can purchase 20 reserved 
instances and request spot instances as per your dynamic spot limit region.



3.What are some of the key best practices for security in Amazon EC2?

Create individual AWS IAM (Identity and Access Management) users to control access to your AWS recourses. Creating separate 
IAM users provides separate credentials for every user, making it possible to assign different permissions to each user based 
on the access requirements.

Secure the AWS Root account and its access keys.

Grant the least privileges by opening up permissions that are required to perform a specific task and not more than that. 
Additional permissions can be granted as required.

Define and review the security group rules regularly.

Have a well-defined, strong password policy for all users.

Deploy anti-virus software on the AWS network to protect it from Trojans, Viruses, etc.



4.A distributed application that processes huge amounts of data across various EC2 instances. 
The application is designed to recover gracefully from EC2 instance failures. How will you accomplish this in a cost-effective manner?

An on-demand or reserved instance will not be ideal in this case, as the task here is not continuous. Moreover. 
Launching an on-demand instance whenever work comes up makes no sense because on-demand instances are expensive. 
In this case, the ideal choice would be to opt for a spot instance owing to its cost-effectiveness and no long-term commitments.




AWS S3 Interview Questions

1.Will you use encryption for S3?
It is better to consider encryption for sensitive data on S3 as it is a proprietary technology.



2.What is the difference between Amazon S3 and EBS?

Amazon S3					EBS								
Object Store				Filesystem						--> Paradigm
Private Key or Public Key	Visible only to your EC2		-->	security
Across data centers			Within the data center			--> redundancy
Fast						Superfast						--> Performance



3.Summarize the S3 Lifecycle Policy.
AWS provides a Lifecycle Policy in S3 as a storage cost optimizer. In fact, it enables the establishment of data retention 
policies for S3 objects within buckets. It is possible to manage data securely and set up rules so that it moves between 
different object classes on a dynamic basis and is removed when it is no longer required.



4.What does the AWS S3 object lock feature do?

We can store objects using the WORM  (write-once-read-many) approach using the S3 object lock. An S3 user can use this 
feature to prevent data overwriting or deletion for a set period of time or indefinitely. Several organizations typically 
use S3 object locks to satisfy legal requirements that require WORM storage.


AWS IAM Interview Questions

1.What do you understand by AWS policies?

In AWS, policies are objects that regulate the permissions of an entity (users, groups, or roles) or an AWS resource. 
In AWS, policies are saved as JSON objects. Identity-based policies, resource-based policies, permissions borders, 
Organizations SCPs, ACLs, and session policies are the six categories of policies that AWS offers.



2.What does AWS IAM MFA support mean?

MFA refers to Multi-Factor Authentication. AWS IAM MFA adds an extra layer of security by requesting a user's username and 
password and a code generated by the MFA device connected to the user account for accessing the AWS management console.



3.How do IAM roles work?

IAM Role is an IAM Identity formed in an AWS account and granted particular authorization policies. 
These policies outline what each IAM (Identity and Access Management) role is allowed and prohibited to perform 
within the AWS account. IAM roles do not store login credentials or access keys; instead, a temporary security 
credential is created specifically for each role session. These are typically used to grant access to users, services, 
or applications that need explicit permission to use an AWS resource.



4.What happens if you have an AWS IAM statement that enables a principal to conduct an activity on a resource 
and another statement that restricts that same action on the same resource?

If more than one statement is applicable, the Deny effect always succeeds.



Other Imporatant questions.

1. If you have half of the workload on the public cloud while the other half is on local storage, 
what architecture will you use for this?

Hybrid Cloud Architecture.



2.What does an AWS Availability Zone mean?

AWS availability zones must be traversed to access the resources that AWS has to offer.  Applications will 
be designed effectively for fault tolerance. Availability Zones have low latency communications with one another 
to efficiently support fault tolerance.



3.What does "data center" mean for Amazon Web Services (AWS)?

According to the Amazon Web Services concept, the data center consists of the physical servers that power the 
offered AWS resources. Each availability zone will certainly include one or more AWS data centers to offer Amazon 
Web Services customers the necessary assistance and support.



4.A content management system running on an EC2 instance is approaching 100% CPU utilization. 
How will you reduce the load on the EC2 instance?

This can be done by attaching a load balancer to an auto scaling group to efficiently distribute 
load among multiple instances.



5.What happens when you launch instances in Amazon VPC?

Each instance has a default IP address when launched in Amazon VPC. This approach is considered ideal when 
connecting cloud resources with data centers.



6.Can you modify the private IP address of an EC2 instance while it is running in a VPC?

It is not possible to change the primary private IP addresses. However, secondary IP addresses can be assigned, 
unassigned, or moved between instances at any given point.



7.You are launching an instance under the free usage tier from AMI, having a snapshot size of 50GB. 
How will you launch the instance under the free usage tier?	

It is not possible to launch this instance under the free usage tier.				

